doc: add an AI contribution policy (#35386)
bitcoin/bitcoin: doc/AI_POLICY.md

# AI Policy

Using AI (i.e., LLMs) as tools for coding is welcome, provided that such use adheres to the following policy, adds value, and does not waste the community's time.

A high bar is held for all contributions to this project.

**AI should not be used to generate comments when communicating with maintainers and other contributors**.
Comments are expected to be written by humans.
Comments that are believed to be written by AI may be moderated.

> If you are opening an issue, you should be able to describe the problem in your own words.

Reviewer: I'd say the bar is higher: you should be able to recreate the change without AI assistance too, not just a general "describe the problem", but understand each line of the solution.

You should only open a pull request if you:

- know the language the code is written in
- could have written the code yourself
- understand the existing surrounding code and the effect of the suggested changes

> You must also be able to explain the pull request changes in your own words.

Reviewer: This was already stated above

Reviewer 2: I think before we were talking about comments, this is specifically about the description. The AI PR descriptions are what annoy me the most. They are often word soup and include details that are irrelevant. Maybe add a short sentence that brief descriptions are the most effective.

This includes the pull request body and responses to questions.

> **Do not copy responses from the AI when replying to questions from maintainers and other contributors.**

Reviewer 3: nit, can simplify

```suggestion
**Do not copy responses from the AI when replying to questions from reviewers.**
```

> **Do not copy responses from the AI when replying to questions from maintainers and other contributors.**

Reviewer: You're absolutely right!

> This project requires a human in the loop who understands the work produced by AI.

Reviewer 3: nit, clarify that the human referred to here is the author

```suggestion
This project requires a human author in the loop who understands the work produced by AI.
```

**Autonomous agents are not allowed to be used for contributing to this project**.
Pull requests that appear in violation of this will be closed, perhaps without notice.

If you wish to include context from an interaction with AI in your comments, it must be in a quote block (e.g., using `>`) and disclosed as such.
It must be accompanied by human commentary explaining the relevance and implications of the context.

> Do not share long snippets.

Reviewer: This line doesn't seem AI related. I often inlude very long patches, that's why we have:

<details><summary>Collapsible sections</summary>

```text
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
very
log text
```

</details>

You should only open a pull request if you:

- know the language the code is written in
- could have written the code yourself
- understand the existing surrounding code and the effect of the suggested changes

You must also be able to explain the pull request changes in your own words.
This includes the pull request body and responses to questions.
**Do not copy responses from the AI when replying to questions from maintainers and other contributors.**

This project requires a human in the loop who understands the work produced by AI.
**Autonomous agents are not allowed to be used for contributing to this project**.
Pull requests that appear in violation of this will be closed, perhaps without notice.

If you wish to include context from an interaction with AI in your comments, it must be in a quote block (e.g., using `>`) and disclosed as such.
It must be accompanied by human commentary explaining the relevance and implications of the context.
Do not share long snippets.

AI is useful when communicating as a non-native English speaker.
If you are using AI to edit your comments for this purpose, please take the time to ensure it reflects your own voice and ideas.

> If using AI for translation, we recommend writing in your native language and including the AI translation in a quote block.

Reviewer 4: nit: I think this section can just be removed: I don't think anyone minds if a non-native English speaker makes a typo or grammar issue in a comment. Also, fully non-English speakers that create pull requests or issues here should be so rare that we can let them do whatever they want. (And if they do the wrong thing, just correct it if it happens, or add this section, if there is indication it will be needed, but IIRC there was never a commonly applicable use-case.

Author: ok

# AI Policy

> Using AI (i.e., LLMs) as tools for coding is welcome. A high bar is held for

Reviewer 3: Perhaps separate the AI use sentence and the rest of this paragraph into two paragraphs, as they are somewhat separate ideas. Optional addition:

```suggestion
Using AI (i.e., LLMs) as tools for coding is welcome, provided that such use adheres to the following policy, adds value, and does not waste the community's time.

A high bar is held for
```

Author: Thanks, seems resonable so I took it.

all contributions to this project. Moreover, the project maintainers remain
responsible for any code that is published as part of a release. Contributors

> are expected to be responsible for any code they publish.

Reviewer 2: I think this should be dropped.

Reviewer 3: Agree

Reviewer 5: > Contributors are expected to be responsible for any code they publish.

"responsible" is not really explained. What does responsible mean? It should be elaborated or dropped.

Author: this is dropped now

**AI should not be used to generate comments when communicating with
maintainers and other contributors**. Comments are expected to be written by
humans. Comments that are believed to be written by AI may be hidden without

> notice.

Reviewer 2: Could just say "may be moderated"?

Author: done

If you are opening an issue, you should be able to describe the problem in your
own words.

If you are opening a pull request, you are expected to be able to explain the
proposed changes in your own words. This includes the pull request body and
responses to questions. **Do not copy responses from the AI when replying to

> questions from maintainers and other contributors.**

Reviewer 6: I think this should be expanded to require authors to have thoroughly reviewed and understand all proposed code changes, and to make sure the code is at least as good as they would have written it manually. They should not propose any code changes on domains for which they lack sufficient expertise, or keep it to the bare minimum and clearly document/disclose it.

Author: Hmmm, this is _sort of_ covered by the next paragraph:

> This project requires a human in the loop who understands the work produced by AI.

Reviewer 6: It is, but I think this is an important part of what makes AI-powered contributions valuable. I think it's useful to expand a bit so when someone who's genuinely interested in making useful contributions can better understand whether their contribution is meeting that bar.

Author: How about:

```
If you are opening a pull request, you are expected to have thoroughly reviewed
and understand all proposed code changes, and be able to explain the changes in
your own words. This includes the pull request body and responses to questions.
**Do not copy responses from the AI when replying to questions from maintainers
and other contributors.**
```

Reviewer 6: I would still prefer to expand more on the other items I mentioned, but there will be lots of opinions on this pull and I don't think we should spend too much time on it, so this is fine.

This project requires a human in the loop who understands the work produced by
AI. **Autonomous agents are not allowed to be used for contributing to this
project**. Pull requests that appear in violation of this will be closed,

> perhaps without notice.

Reviewer 7: nit: "will be closed, perhaps without notice" -> "can be closed without notice"

(a bit more standard phrasing)

If you wish to include context from an interaction with AI in your comments, it
must be in a quote block (e.g., using `>`) and disclosed as such. It must be
accompanied by human commentary explaining the relevance and implications of
the context. Do not share long snippets.

AI is useful when communicating as a non-native English speaker. If you are
using AI to edit your comments for this purpose, please take the time to ensure
it reflects your own voice and ideas. If using AI for translation, we recommend
writing in your native language and including the AI translation in a quote

> block.

Reviewer 7: nit: would recommend to put native language into a collapsible section

<details>
<summary>like this</summary>
to avoid unnecessarily long text that most probably can't read
</details>
